Pysync
------

Pysync is a demonstration implementation of the rsync algorithm in Python.
It is not fast and is not optimized, however it does work and is very
simple. The primary aim is to provide a simple implementation of the
algorithm for reference and experimentation, thus code clarity has been
given a higher priority than performance. It includes a combination of ideas
taken from librsync, xdelta, and rsync. 

It now also includes an md4 extension module, and a librsync extension
module built using swig. The librsync extension module is a very fast
alternative for use in real world applications. The original pure Python
pysync module is best for demonstrating and experimenting with the
algorithm.

Both 'pysync.py' and 'librsync.py' are their own best documentation. Both
can be executed with Python as general purpose file signature/delta/patch
utilities similar to the rdiff utility that comes with librsync.

Note that the librsync and pysync delta and signature files are not
compatible. The librsync signature and delta files are compatible with the
librsync rdiff utility.


INSTALLATION
------------

Pysync is available as binary and source packages for both Windows and
Linux. The binary packages and windows source package have been build using
pythons distutils. The windows source archive includes everything needed to
build on windows using distutils and MSVC. The unix source package does not
include librsync, but includes everything required to build pysync from
scratch using swig, distutils, make etc.

Windows Binary: Get and run the pysync Windows installer.

Linux Binary: Get and install the pysync Linux rpm. Debian users can use
'alien' to convert it to a deb.

Windows Source: Get and extract the pysync .zip source archive. In the
directory where you extracted pysync, run "python setup.py bdist_wininst".
This will compile and create a Windows installer in the "dist" directory.

Unix Source: Get and extract the pysync .tar.bz2 source archive. Get and
extract the librsync source into a directory 'librsync' off the pysync
directory. For version 0.9.5 of librsync (the latest at this release), you
should get and apply the "MSVC6 and Cygwin compiling" patch from
Sourceforge, as this includes some important bug fixes. In the pysync
directory run "make". This will configure librsync, run swig to generate the
librsync wrapper, and compile and generate dumb source and binary packages
in the "dist" directory. Check the Makefile for other build and clean
options.


pysync module
-------------

The pysync module includes low level, high level, and file level API's. The
source of pysync.py includes extensive documentation that explains it very
clearly. The test code included is a good example of how it can be used.


librsync module
---------------

The librsync module is a swig wrapper around the librsync library. This
wrapper includes both low level and file level API's. The swig generated
documentation "librsync_wrap.doc" summarises the available classes and
methods. The swig generated shadow class librsync.py includes test code that
is a good example of how the file level API works.

The file level API allows signature, delta and patch operations on Python
Files. This API is identical to the file level API of pysync. It should work
on any Python File type object that can be converted to a real file handle,
including things like sockets.

Unfortunately the low level incremental API does not yet work. Anyone with
more experience getting swig callbacks to work are welcome to help fix this.
The incremental delta and patch operation is broken, but the signature
generation and loading appears to work.


md4sum module
-------------

The md4sum directory contains a md4 extension module. This module was
created simply by getting the files md4c.c and md4.h from libmd-0.3
<http://www.penguin.cz/~mhi/libmd/>, and generating md4module.c by running;

sed 's/\(md\)5/\14/i' <md5module.c >md4module.c

This works because the RSA md5 code used by Python has an identical API to
the RSA md4 code. The md4.h header was also fixed slightly for windows
compiling.


CONTACTS
--------

The librsync library is hosted on sourceforge as part of the rproxy project
<https://sourceforge.net/projects/rproxy/>.

The librsync swig wrapper development was kindly sponsored by Accellion
<http://www.accellion.com/>.

Pysync is mantained by Donovan Baarda <abo@minkirri.apana.org.au>. The
freshmeat appindex entry serves as the project's homepage. Please email any
comments/suggestions/complaints to me, or leave a comment on the freshmeat
appindex entry <http://freshmeat.net/projects/pysync/>.

Donovan Baarda <abo@minkirri.apana.org.au>
http://sourceforge.net/users/abo/
